[music]
Just north of Beaumont
on the edge of the
Big Thicket National Preserve
awaits Villag Creek State Park.
The thing that really makes the
park special
is it being part of the
Big Thicket area of Texas.
You won't find as many plants
and animals in one little area
anywhere in North America.
From blooming dogwoods to
prickly pear cactus
to jack in the pulpit
here there are plants
from four different ecosystems
for folks to see.
My favorite part of the job
is taking people out,
especially kids because they're
wide eyed and full of wonder
and absorb things like a sponge.
Anybody know what kind of
plant that is?
Yaupon. That' yaupon holly.
The species name on it is
Ilex vomitoria.
Exactly because if you
eat enough
of those leaves or berries,
that's what's gonna
happen to you.
The Gibsons from nearby Silsbee
"What was that?"
look and listen
when they explore the park's
numerous trails.
What is it?
Might be a leopard frog,
some kind of toad.
Look at his neck.
I am a visual person
but hearing is a big part with
me and I like all the sounds.
Wind, as I will always say,
is one of my favorite things.
We hear the frogs a lot
out here.
We hear all kinds of birds.
Oh, this is pretty.
Easy going Village Creek
is definitely the
main attraction.
It is just like cruising.
You make one stroke and
you glide 10.
It's one of the few free-flowing
streams left in Texas.
It's not dammed up anywhere.
It's a flat water stream
so it's easy to canoe
or kayak down
and it's a lot of fun.
It's something people really
love to do.
It's a nice, quiet stream
even though it's relatively
close to the city.
Easy access. Lots of birds
and other wildlife to see.
There's a pileated woodpecker
in that tree.
He's eating all the mulberries.
They're beautiful birds.
It's different every time
I'm on it.
It doesn't matter what day
of the week it is
or what the weather is.
There's always something new.
[music]
It can be the creek,
camping,
or the quiet.
Village Creek State Park
is worth the visit.